Lets work towards a program that calculates the future value of an investment based on some user input through the command line.
- Ask the user for the amount that should be invested, the expected annual return rate, How long to hold the investment.
- Calculate the final future value.


`investment_calculator.go`:
```go
package main

func main() {
	var investmentAmount = 1000
	var expectedReturnRate = 5.5  
	var years = 10
	var futureValue = investmentAmount * (1 + expectedReturnRate / 100) ** years
}
```

At this stage we have a compile time error: `Invalid operation: investmentAmount * (1 + expectedReturnRate/100) (mismatched types int and float64`. We used `var`, but Go is statically typed, so like the rarely used Java `var`, Go has compile time inference for `var` variables. You'll more errors; there are compile time errors in Go for unused variables, it's not just a warning like in other Java. These will go away though when were done writing our program. Lets fix the `mismatched types` error.

`investment_calculator.go`:
```go
package main

func main() {
	var investmentAmount = 1000
	var expectedReturnRate = 5.5  
	var years = 10
	var futureValue = float64(investmentAmount) * (1 + expectedReturnRate / 100) ** years
}
```

> We could have also done `var investmentAmount = 1000.0` to get the compiler to assume `investmentAmount` is type `float64`.


Now there is one more error left, there is no built in exponent operator `**` like Python, like Java we must import a package that exposes a function to do exponentiation. Let's `import math` and use `math.Pow`

`investment_calculator.go`:
```go
package main

import (  
    "fmt"  
    "math"
)

func main() {
	var investmentAmount = 1000
	var expectedReturnRate = 5.5  
	var years = 10
	
	var futureValue = float64(investmentAmount) * math.Pow((1 + expectedReturnRate / 100), float64(years))
	
	fmt.Println(futureValue)
	
}
```

In total, here's a list of all the different **types** in Go:
- `int`: signed integer (size depends on system: 32 or 64-bit)
- `float32`, `float64`: floating point numbers (32-bit and 64-bit precision)
- `string`: text (UTF-8 encoded)
- `bool`: boolean (true / false)
- `uint`: unsigned integer
- `int64`, `int32`, `int16`, `int8`: signed integers of specific sizes
- `uint64`, `uint32`, `uint16`, `uint8`: unsigned integers of specific sizes
- `rune`: alias for `int32`, used to represent a single **Unicode code point** 
- `byte`: alias for `uint8`, commonly used for raw binary data
- `complex64`, `complex128`: complex numbers

> Go does not have a `char` type. Instead, characters are represented using rune, which stores a **Unicode code point**. A code point is a numeric identifier for a character (e.g., 'A' → U+0041, '你' → U+4F60). ASCII characters fit in a single byte, whereas non-ASCII characters require multiple bytes in UTF-8 encoding. All characters fit in a single rune no matter their byte length, you can get that for example with `len("你")` is 3 bytes. 

We mentioned earlier that Go is a statically typed language. Typically in statically typed languages we prefer explicit typing. We can also do that to make things more clear:

`investment_calculator.go`:
```go
package main

import (  
    "fmt"  
    "math"
)

func main() {
	var investmentAmount float64 = 1000
	var expectedReturnRate = 5.5  
	var years float64  = 10
	
	var futureValue = investmentAmount * math.Pow((1 + expectedReturnRate / 100), years)
	
	fmt.Println(futureValue)
}
```

We can use a more concise syntax by omitting `var` and using the `:=` operator, which declares and initializes a variable in one step with type inference. The `:=` form is only available inside functions, while var is required when declaring variables without an initial value, specifying an explicit type, or defining variables at the package level. You should end up using `:=` around 80% of the time to make code more readable. We can also assign multiple variables in the same line of the same explicit type for convenience.

`investment_calculator.go`:
```go
package main  
  
import (  
    "fmt"  
    "math"
)  
  
func main() {  
    investmentAmount, years, expectedReturnRate := 1000.0, 10.0, 5.5   
  
    futureValue := investmentAmount * math.Pow(1+expectedReturnRate/100, years)  
  
    fmt.Println(futureValue)  
}
```

> If a multi-variable assignment has no explicit type, you are allowed to mix types like `var investmentAmount, years = 1000, "10"`. You cannot however add multiple types to different variables in a single line variable assignment, you can only have one like `var investmentAmount, years float64 = 1000, 10 `.


Consider we also want to add inflation into the equation. We eventually are going to let the user enter values for `investmentAmount`, `years`, and `expectedReturnRate`, but not `inflationRate`. `inflationRate` doesn't change, so its a `const` instead of `var`, it is immutable.

```go
package main  
  
import (  
    "fmt"  
    "math"
)  
  
func main() {  
	const inflationRate = 2.5
    investmentAmount, years, expectedReturnRate := 1000.0, 10.0, 5.5   
  
    futureValue := investmentAmount * math.Pow(1+expectedReturnRate/100, years)  
    
    futureValueInflationAdj := futureValue / math.Pow(1+inflationRate/100, years) 
  
    fmt.Println(futureValueInflationAdj)  
}
```

> Like Java, declaring variables without assigning a value gives them default values, such as 0.0 for `float64`, 0 for `int`, false for `bool`, and "" for `string`, while reference types (we'll explore these later) like pointers, slices, and maps default to `nil`.