In this section, we'll build a Go REST API for an event booking platform where users can browse events, create and manage events, and register or unregister for them. It includes basic authentication (signup/login) and supports full CRUD operations for events, along with user-to-event registration flows, making it a clean foundation for a booking or ticketing system.

The routes exposed:
- **GET** `/events` — Get a list of available events
- **GET** `/events/<id>` — Get details for a specific event
- **POST** `/events` — Create a new bookable event
- **PUT** `/events/<id>` — Update an event
- **DELETE** `/events/<id>` — Delete an event
- **POST** `/signup` — Create a new user
- **POST** `/login` — Authenticate user
- **POST** `/events/<id>/register` — Register user for an event
- **DELETE** `/events/<id>/register` — Cancel registration

POST, PUT, and DELETE operations that mutate data will all require auth, except for `/signup` and `/login` since those deal with managing the auth itself. `/login` will be implemented with a JWT. We'll also add extra RBAC so that only the creator of an event can `PUT` or `DELETE` it (doesn't apply to registrations, just the event).

To build our REST API, we'll be using the **Gin** framework. Gin is a high-performance HTTP web framework for Go, designed for building fast, efficient REST APIs and web applications. Let's install Gin:

```
go get -u github.com/gin-gonic/gin
```

Now we can setup a first route. We can use `gin.Default()` to get back a `*gin.Engine`, an engine instance that can be run with a function `Run` exposed. The engine also has logger and recovery middleware already attached. The engine instance also exposes functions like `GET(relativePath string, handlers ...func(*gin.Context))` for every HTTP verb. Gin's context of type `gin.Context` is used for handling the full lifecycle of a request and response. Here's a first demo:

`main.go`:
```go
package main

import (
	"net/http"

	"github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
)

func main() {
	server := gin.Default()
	server.GET("/events", getEvents)
	server.Run(":8080")
}

func getEvents(ctx *gin.Context) {
	ctx.JSON(http.StatusOK, gin.H{"message": "Hello, World!"})
}
```

> The `net/http` package exposes status code constants for us. So `http.StatusOK` is just 200. `gin.H` is an alias for `map[string]any`.

If we run `main.go`, we can see the server starts:

```sh
[GIN-debug] [WARNING] Creating an Engine instance with the Logger and Recovery middleware already attached.

[GIN-debug] [WARNING] Running in "debug" mode. Switch to "release" mode in production.
 - using env:	export GIN_MODE=release
 - using code:	gin.SetMode(gin.ReleaseMode)

[GIN-debug] GET    /events                   --> main.getEvents (3 handlers)
[GIN-debug] [WARNING] You trusted all proxies, this is NOT safe. We recommend you to set a value.
Please check https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin/blob/master/docs/doc.md#dont-trust-all-proxies for details.
[GIN-debug] Listening and serving HTTP on :8080
```

Now if we go to `http://localhost:8080/events` in the browser we get back a response from the server:

```sh
{"message":"Hello, World!"}
```

And the server gives us some logs from that built-in logging middleware mentioned earlier:

```sh
[GIN] 2026/04/19 - 12:14:30 | 200 | 219.667µs |             ::1 | GET      "/events"
[GIN] 2026/04/19 - 12:14:30 | 404 |    625ns |             ::1 | GET      "/favicon.ico"
```