Recall that a **pointer** is just a variable that stores the **address** of a value instead of an actual value. 

To get the pointer to a value, we use the `&` operator. You can read the `&` operator as "address of", so `&x` reads "address of `x`".

```go
x := 1
var xPointer int*
xPointer := &x // xPointer = 0xc000018050
```

To work with the value stored at a pointer’s address, we use the `*` operator. You can read `*` as “value of” (also called **dereferencing**), so `*xPointer` means “the value at the address stored in xPointer”.

```go
x := 1
var xPointer int*
xPointer := &x

// dereference to get the value at that address 
// xValue == 1
xValue := *xPointer
```

> Even for value types, there is always an underlying memory address. In Go, we can explicitly access and work with that address using pointers for any type. In Java, both primitives and objects exist in memory, but the language only exposes references for objects, not for primitives. Even then, these references are abstracted by the JVM, you can pass and use them, but you cannot access or manipulate the underlying memory address directly like you can with pointers in Go.

This brings us to an important question coming from a typical stack of Java, Typescript, and Python. Why would we ever want to do use pointers?
1. Avoid unnecessary value copies
2. Directly mutate values

A value copy happens when a function receives its own copy of the data instead of working with the original. In Java, values are always copied (or for objects the reference to the value), so reassigning or passing a value to a function creates a new variable that does not affect the original unless both variables refer to the same underlying object. We might want to work with and mutate that original value instead of working with the copy.

Value copies can be inefficient because the program has to duplicate the entire data being passed, which increases memory usage and CPU work, especially for large data structures, and can also put more pressure on the garbage collector, since those extra copied objects or temporary values still need to be tracked and eventually cleaned up.

`Example1.java`:
```java
int x = 1;
int y = x; // copy

y = 100;

// x == 1 (unchanged)
// y == 100
```

`Example2.java`:
```java
void process(int x) {
    x = 100;
}

int x = 1;
process(x);

// x == 1 (unchanged)
```

While in Go, instead we have the flexibility to choose whether we want to pass a copy of the value or work with the original by using pointers:

`example_1.go`:
```go
x := 1
y := x // copy

y = 100

// x == 1 (unchanged, same approach as Java)
// y == 100

p := &x
*p = 100

// x == 100 (changed)
```

`example_2.go`:
```go
// Pass by value
func process(x int) {
    x = 100
}

x := 1
process(x)

// x == 1 (unchanged, same approach as Java)

// Pass by reference (pointer)
func processPtr(x *int) {
    x = 100
}

processPtr(&x)
// x == 100 (changed)
```

> Just like any other values, pointers too have a default value when they are declared but not assigned. For any `*type`, this default value is `nil`, just like objects in Java are `null` at first.

